---
layout: post
title: Open FPL - an open-source web base FPL tools
description: Building and designing an open-source web base tools for Fantasy Premier League
keywords: Fantasy Premier League, Open Source, Chakra UI, Next.js, Vercel
publishedTime: 2021-07-20T07:39:31.925Z
---

## Still in the middle of the break

Continuing from [my last post](/posts/003-a-mid-career-break), well, I am still in the middle of the
break but a lot has changed since then. I got an offer from a Japanese company, whose start date is
at 1st Septemtber 2021. And, COVID-19 situation in Thailand is getting worse and worse so I am not
able to travel around anymore. So, this career gap has become bigger than I thought it would be and
I somehow stuck at home with a lot of "free" time in my hand.

I decided to start learning Japanese because of obvious reasons using
[Duolingo](https://www.duolingo.com/). I know that there are lot of people are against using this
app to learn Japanese as there are plenty of "better" resources out there. But I tried a handful of
them, they seems to be good but it is rather boring so I am afraid that I would give up before I get
on the wave. So I decided to get with Duolingo as it is a bit more interactive than other options.
It has been more than a month, and I almost finished all resources there already so I think I will
write about my experience with it after that.

Learning Japanese does not take 100% for my time so I decided to pick up another project to do.
Building apps is always something I have fun doing, and I gain so much from open-source community so
I decided to build an open-source project in the remaining free time I have.

I do have a few ideas but I decided to go with Open FPL, an open-source FPL tools web app since it
is not too big, rather straightforward, quite extendable, and there does not seem to be much
open-source FPL projects despite size of the players and other tools available in the market.

## Fantasy Premier League

[Fantasy Premier League](https://fantasy.premierleague.com/) is a free-to-play sport fantasy game
where its players (will be called managers later to avoid confusiong) are given a certain budget and
can use it to build their own team using real-life football players in English Premier League.
Managers are able to transfer in and out anytime but it may come with a cost if you transfers too
many. Every weeks, managers have to lock in their team lineup and would be awarded with points based
on real-life players performance in their lineup. The goal is to get the highest points possible at
the end of seasons which usually starts in August and ends in next year May. There are a few other
complexity, for example, setting a team captain to earn double the points the players get in that
gameweek or using chips to get extra points from your bench players.

Ultimately, the challenge of the game is to maximise the limited resources you have, know when to
transfers out off-form players and transfer in in-form plaayers, know who to captain and know when
to use the chips for their maximum return.

## Designing Open FPL

So a few things to consider before starting the project: who is the main target, when I want to
launch, what is my budget to build this.

Once the main audience is known, then I will know what are their use-cases, then their main
challanges can be listed and I can use those to define the list of features the app needs to have.

Casual players, semi-casual players or hardcore players are three main groups I identified. I assume
that the basic information provided from the official FPL website would be suffice for the casual
players and hardcode players would probably want to crunch their own numbers to run their own
analysis anways. So something inbetween is a sweet spot. The information from the official website
is not enough yet they still do not want to fully committed to the game. I believe this space has
the biggest opportunity to be filled.

I do not have the luxury to go around and interviewing people so I decided to just make this tools
based on my use-cases. I will dogfood this project anyway so I guess this is the most time efficient
way to get it moving. Once there is some traffic, I will slowly adjust it to fit the mass.

For me the most tiring part of playing FPL is when deciding which players I want to include to my
team. There are many options and you can easily be overwhelmed if you think about it too much. So to
decide on a player, I usually look at their form and their next fixtures. If they are in a good form
then most likely they will continue that until they don't. So what stopped them from playing good?
One obvious reason is the opponent is too strong. That is why I would choose a player that has been
performing well and has easier fixtures coming so I don't have to transfer them out.

To do this, you can look the points he has been earning from FPL website and also look at the
Fixture Difficulty Rating (FDR) for future fixtures. But these can be deceiving.

Some players has been doing well but is not scoring much FPL due to bad luck or other factors. So to
get over this stats like xG, xA and xGA are very useful. Those are not available on FPL so I would
need to switching around between websites to complete the picture.

FDR is also too simplistic on FPL since it does not sepearate between attack and defence. Some teams
are good at attacking but bad at defence, so I would need to able to tell that apart so I can choose
my attacking players would be able to captitalise on weak defence teams.

Lastly, planning future lineup is very crucial. More often than not you want to invest in players
that would yield good returns in more than one gameweek so that you would be able to spend your
transfers elsewhere. FPL does not provide an easy way to do this. What I have been doing were just
take mental note and just roll with it.

So those are three main things I needed the most. Not too sure if I would be able to do it all or
not.

So next question is when I want to launch this. Actually, I am in no hurry but it would be nice to
be able to launch it before the next season begins. So let's just say 31st July which is the hard
deadline. Which should be more than enough time to solve those three main issues.

Lastly, how much I want to spend on this project. Yea, it is 0. I mean I am building a free tool
spending my own time already so ideally I would not want to also spend much money on it which would
make this project very unsustainable.

## Building Open FPL

I was contemplating if I should try [Svelte](https://svelte.dev/) for this project. I did quite a
fair bit of research but I still do not its eco system is not matured yet. So I have to wait a few
more years to try it again, unfortunately.

I decided to go back to React again and as a big fan of [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) and
[Next.js](https://nextjs.org/), it does not take long for me to decide to use them again. Vercel
free tier is generous and Next.js SSG is something I can see being very useful for this project.

I decided to keep backend and database as small as possible since those are where the cost come
from. Since I do not own any data as players data and stats are going to be from official FPL
website and [Understat](https://understat.com/) anyway. To top it off, I decided to save all user
data inside the browser. This come with a cost of users not being able to sync their data between
devices and I would not get their emails to do "marketing" stuff. Well, I do not plan to do those
marketing anyway so let's just try to roll with only local data for now. If the experience is so bad
then I will have to figure out something later.

I finally get to try [Chakra UI](https://chakra-ui.com/) which I think it is one of the design and
well-maintained project in this space. It has been in my mind for years but I somehow never got to
try it in a real project. There are other projects like [Radix UI](https://www.radix-ui.com/) and
[vanilla-extract](https://github.com/seek-oss/vanilla-extract) but I think the former is not quite
ready yet while the other one is a lower level solution so I would have to put a lot more effort to
finish the project.

As mentioned, there was no database, so the architecture was quite different or rather hacky.
Everything is file-based which is synced once a day. The syncing is triggered by GitHub Actions that
would make a commit that will subsequently trigger Vercel build which includes data scraping script
to get the data and build updated pages.

It turned out quite well. The resources being used are very low since users only interact with a few
static files which are mostly cache-able - HTML, JS, JSON and images. So I think if this keeps up,
this project is going cost me very little. Great news.

## 1.0.0

Version 1.0.0 pre-release was launched 17th July 2021. I made a
[Reddit post](https://www.reddit.com/r/FantasyPL/comments/om1fy9/introducing_open_fpl_opensource_web_based_fpl/)
for it and the actual Version 1.0.0 version was launched also on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/openfpl/status/1417110137681027075) on 19th July 2021.

It was quite well recieved on Reddit. People seems to love the clean design, and the
no-sign-up-no-ads aspect of it. There were a few suggestions made like mobile support and adding
more stats and only one bug report that is related to an outdated browser. I feel pretty good about
the feedback from the launch.

However, I have 0 engagement from Twitter. Well, I can totally see that coming since the account has
no followers. This is a shame since FPL community in FPL is quite big. I do not really know how to
build up Twitter followers numbers so it will be something I am going to learn next.

## What's next

So there are a few things I plan to do in a few months from now: mobile support, better stats, and
live architecture.

Mobile support is going to be challenging. I do not really see any other FPL tool UI on mobile that
I like. I also find the official FPL app is not so nice to use. The screen is too small to see
things in time efficient manner and they requires too many taps to achieve a task. I will have to do
a lot of research on this since I do not really want to deliver a subpar UI.

Better stats is another very important thing to do. And actually I also do not know how I should
approach this since I am not really a well-seasoned FPL player as well. Maybe I will not give too
much thought on this yet and just use the tool as it is and add in or remove stats as I see fit as
the game goes on.

Live architecture is about making Open FPL data more up-to-date since in the current architecture
the users have to wait till next day to get the up-to-date data. I would say this is not a major
issue in the features Open FPL currently have. But it limits the potential of other tools like Live
Ranking. So I will to trial-and-error on this. Hopefully, the cost would stay low enough for me to
be able to afford it.

## Parting notes

I have been very mentally tired lately so I am going to leave this post as it is for now and publish
it anyway so that I can move on. I will come back edit it soon. So sorry bad this wall of text, my
poor grammar, mispelling everywhere. :(

Oh, almost forgot to link the project.

- Open FPL website: https://www.openfpl.com
- GitHub repo: https://github.com/bapairaew/open-fpl
