---
layout: post
title: Building a personal website with Svelte and Tailwind
description: A journey of first time trying to build something with Svelte for the first time
keywords: Engineering, Tailwind, MDX, Svelte, Vercel, personal website
publishedTime: 2022-01-13T14:05:15.044Z
modifiedTime: 2022-01-16T05:59:33.343Z
---

New year new website!

I have a bit of free time during new year's holiday because I cannot really go anywhere because of
the pandemic. At first, I wanted to work in [OpenFPL](https://openfpl.com) but I did not really have
a good idea I wanted to work on at that moment. So I decided to take this chance revisit my personal
website and learn a new framework instead.

It has been around 7 years since I have started using [React](https://reactjs.org/) exclusively for
both my personal projects and work projects. A lot of things have changed since the early days but I
would say the experience has been very great. I tried a few other frameworks like
[Ember.js](https://emberjs.com/), [Angular](https://angular.io/)(not
[AngularJS](https://angularjs.org/)), and [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/) on a smaller project,
however, I just always came back to React every time because the overall developer experience is
just simply better and the alternatives' selling points could not really offset it.

React has been criticised a lot due to its poor performance relative to its alternatives. There are
a few of blogs/websites run
[performance benchmark](https://blog.openreplay.com/solid-vs-react-the-fastest-vs-the-most-popular-ui-library)
and React always comes among the last. The number might look convincing but it is left to be
speculated how much this would mean in real-world applications. The majority of the web applications
are not that complicated and React has been doing just fine for those in my experience. It struggles
on the more a more complex applications which would require you to do a fine-grained optimisation
but that would solve most of the performance issue that I encountered. This train of thought (and
the existence of [React Native](https://reactnative.dev/)) has been preventing me from adopting any
other framework fully even though I find a few of them really good (e.g. Vue.js). This is quite
different from when I moved from [jQuery](https://jquery.com/) to AngularJS and from AngularJS to
React.

However, for the past few years, there has been a lot of talks about these "modern" framework that
does not use [Virtual DOM](https://reactjs.org/docs/faq-internals.html) which is the core of React.
The most notable one is probably
[Virtual DOM is pure overhead](https://svelte.dev/blog/virtual-dom-is-pure-overhead) by
[Svelte](https://svelte.dev/) creator, Rich Harris. It has been quite a few years since this blog
published and Svelte is getting more mature plus
[Rich Harris recently joined Vercel](https://vercel.com/blog/vercel-welcomes-rich-harris-creator-of-svelte)
to work on Svelte full-time so seems like the future of Svelte is clearer than ever. This urges me
to finally give it a try.

It has been almost one year since
[I rebuilt this personal website](/posts/001-theme-ui-mdx-powered-personal-website) so it comes as a
easy decision for me to try Svelte out along with revisit this website.

Honestly, I still quite like the current design so there probably won't be ma changes in that
department so this would be mostly just rebuilding the same thing with a different framework.

## The setup

Last time, I used [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) as my core framework but, obviously, this is not
available for Sevelte since it is built around React. Fortunately, Svelte comes with its own build
framework [SvelteKit](https://kit.svelte.dev/) so this would help a lot with the confuguration and
build setup.

I used [Theme UI](https://theme-ui.com/) for the UI components library but I found the experience
was not that great and it is also written in React so this is a good time to go with a different
one. I have tried [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) in quite a few smaller projects and I
have to say composing UI components with it is such a joy. And since there is no complex UI
components in this website so Tailwind would be an easy choice for this.

Adding Tailwind to SvelteKit is quite simple and it is even easier to just use
[Svelte Add](https://github.com/svelte-add/svelte-add) to do that. Just run a single command and you
are ready to go.

For markdown preprocessor part, I use [mdsvex](https://github.com/pngwn/MDsveX) to do the job.
Actually, I am not sure if there are other alternatives out there but it seems easy to set up with
Svelte Add so I just go with it.

Another thing that I am trying out with this project is [PnPm](https://pnpm.io/). There is no
particular reason. I just feel like might as well give it a try.

## The experience

To be honest, I did not learn about Svelte as much as I hoped for. The website is pretty simple and
I felt I did not touch much of a more complicated part of the framework. But this might be a good
thing since it showed a sign that as someone who is new to the framework and just make this website
without getting a headache or two.

Overall, it was a good experience although I am not really a fan of this "template" thing which is a
similar feeling that I had with AngularJS, and Vue.js. I just prefer the feel of "everything is
JavaScript" in React more although I understand the downside of it.

I particularly like directive. This brings me back to AngularJS days and this is the biggest I miss
from those days. It is fun to use and it makes components a lot more flexible. I hope React supports
this but they probably won't, given how it works under the hood.

There are a few things that I don't like. One example is how-to expose component property. Seems
like this is being done by export variables inside `<script />` block of the component which is a
bit confusing at first and quite limiting since you cannot do
[spread syntax](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Spread_syntax)
like you could in React. Also, I have no idea how to expose `class` since it is a reserved name in
JavaScript ðŸ¤”.

Tailwind is still a joy to use. The code looks so much cleaner compared to the last version mainly
because of Tailwind. Version 3.0 was also just released so this is the first project I tried it with
that. [Multi Column Layout](https://tailwindcss.com/blog/tailwindcss-v3#multi-column-layout) and
[Aspect Ratio](https://tailwindcss.com/blog/tailwindcss-v3#modern-aspect-ratio-api) are super useful
and is just there exactly when I need it haha.

SvelteKit comes with some quirks. It seems prerendered pages are defined by crawling from the entry
page. This means if there are routes that are not accessible through `<a href>`, `<img src>` or
`<img srcset>` from the crawling, it won't be prerendered at all. This causes an issue on
[my photography page](/photography) since it showed blurred images from a custom route first which
is defined by a custom property that won't be caught from the crawler. My workaround for this was
just to attach hidden images link to those blurred image routes which is not too ugly. So there is
no big deal.

## The sacrifice

Because a few features in Next.js/Vercel are not available so there are a few sacrifices I have to
make.

The first one is ISR. Basically, the website won't be regenerating pages from the data source on the
fly anymore. I will need to redeploy from Vercel Dashboard to get those pages updated. But given how
often I update the content currently, this should be fine.

Also, there is no simple way to create a Lambda on Vercel through SvelteKit as far as I know. So
dynamic og-images feature has to be replaced as well. Now they are just the same static image. Not
as cool as before but I can live with it.

There is also no [next/image](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-reference/next/image) to help me optimise
the website's images. So I have to do it myself by providing a blurred image route for preloaded
images and a resized image route for thumbnail images.

Lastly, the build time is 4x slower. Due to all routes having to be prerendered - this includes
blurred image routes and resized image routes which take the majority of the time. This could be
solved by caching these images somewhere so they won't have to be regenerated every time would
decrease the build time by a lot. But then again the current build time is 8 minutes for a
not-so-frequently updated website, I guess this is good enough.

## The comparison

So here is the performance from Lighthouse on the landing page:

![Svelte version performance](/images/posts/006/svelte-perf.png)

![React version performance](/images/posts/006/react-perf.png)

Svelte wins here. The score might be pretty code but I have to admit that I can feel that Svelte is
noticeably faster even though I have been quite biased toward React.

Svelte's bundle size is also a lot smaller 34kb vs 151kb in React version. 5x smaller!

But please do keep in mind that React version uses a UI component library but Svelte version does
not. So this comparison is by no means fair. The actual difference in both bundle size and
performance might be a lot closer if they both use Tailwind.

## The what's new

Apart from rebuilding the same thing I also take this chance to sneak in a few "improvements".

Honestly, I still really like the current design for its simplicity, robustness, and practicality
although there were a few feedbacks that it looks too plain. Some even questioned if this is the
final version. So in order to make it a bit more lively, I added fancy gradient background on the
splash screen. The colors are heavily inspired by [Linear](https://linear.app/).

Since I move to Tailwind so I add iOS-esque blurred background header which is super simple to do by
just adding `backdrop-blur` class. I also add D A R K M O D E because it is so simple to do in
Tailwind. I think I change less than 20 lines of code to support it. Awesome!

Last but not least, this website is also now written in TypeScript!

## The conclusion

I like the overall experience so far. Will definitely keep an eye out for Svelte and keep this
website as a testing ground. But I will still continue using React for a bigger projects. The
ecosystem in React is not a few level above currently. It might still take years for Svelte to catch
up.

---

## Update

I had more fun than I thought working with Svelte so I decided to spend a bit more time for some
improvement here and there in the weekend.

The main improvement is images optimisation. Prior to this, there were two custom routes to resize
images and make placeholder images using [sharp](https://github.com/lovell/sharp).

Resizing images is straightforward as it just resizes images for thumbnails which could be extended
for doing some `srcset` which is not implemented in this website yet.

Placeholder images are not as simple. At first, it was another custom route but the performance does
not improvement much since it would still require requests to server to get those images. So I tried
to embed [data URLs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/Data_URIs)
instead so that the visitors and see the placeholders immediately.

I tried to put the implementation in `Image.svelte` component itself but it did not really work
since preload data asynchronously does not really work with prerendering. So I ended up just
generate data URL for placeholders in JSON file instead. This way the component knows about the
placeholder before it renders.

There is another quirk I found. is it seems routes in `.svx` do not get prerender. This means both
prerendered resized images and placeholder images do not work with the contents in [/posts](/posts)
and [/projects](/projects).

This ended up forcing me to manually resize the image and write a
[remark](https://github.com/remarkjs/remark) plugin to generate placeholder's data URL. The
implementation was not pretty since I have to append the generate URL to `title` field of the image
since I do not know how to set custom attributes. I am still very new with `remark`, so maybe if I
found a better solution I will make an update on that.

Another improvement that I made was page transitioning which was a lot simpler to do compared to
React. No additional package is required and the API is simple, I guess that is the benefit of being
an actual framework and not just a UI library. However, the transition somehow does not work all the
time in mobile devices. I am not sure why yet but since there is only few visitors coming from
mobile anyway so I decided to leave it as it is for now.

---

Source code: https://github.com/bapairaew/svelte.bapairaew.com
